Hello and welcome to this Python tutorial.
Now we're going to import the libraries
we will be using to implement
our restricted Boltzmann machines,
and actually, I have listed all of these libraries here,
so that all the required imports are done,
and so that we don't have to worry about this.
So, there is NumPy, because of course
we will be working with arrays,
There is Pandas to import the dataset
and create the training set and the test set,
and then we have old Torch libraries,
so, for example this.
And then, is the module of Torch
to implement neural networks,
this is for the parallel computations,
this for the optimizer, these are the tools that we will use
and this is for stochastic range and descent.
So let's import them all,
so I am going to select all of them,
and then let's press Cmnd or Cntrl + Enter to execute.
Here we go, now all the libraries, classes
and functions are well imported.
And so, we are ready to start.
So now what we're going to do is to import the dataset,
the first dataset we're going to import is all our movies.
So let's do it, all our movies are in this file movies.dat.
And so, let's create a new variable
that will contain all our movies,
so I'm calling it movies, then =,
and then we're gonna Pandas of course,
which has the shortcut pd.
Then, the read_csv function,
here we go,
and now there is gonna be quite some adventure
because the dataset is not that simple,
and we'll need to use some of the arguments here
to import it well.
So first what we need to do, is to
find the path that contains the dataset,
and so, this whole folder here is the working directory,
but then we need to access this folder,
because this is the folder that contains this movies.file,
and so the first element of the path is ml-1n.
So that's what we need to specify first,
so, ml-1n, and then, /,
and then we just need to type the name of the file,
which is movies.dat.
Okay, perfect, that's the first argument.
Now, second one.
So the second one is the separator.
The default separator is a comma,
and that works for csv file, you know, simple csv files.
Where the features are separated by commas.
But here that's not the case because
we have the titles of the movies,
and some of them contain commas inside the title.
So we cannot use commas to separate the movies
because then we could have the same movie
in two different columns.
And therefore the separator is not a comma
but a double colon, like this.
If you open the movies.dat file,
you will see that the movies are separated
by their ratings and their other features,
by a double colon like this.
So that's the separator and therefore
we need to add sep=, and we have to
input this double colon in quotes, like this.
Then comma, and third parameter.
The third parameter is the header.
Because actually the file movies.dat,
doesn't contain headers, that is, names of columns.
And therefore we need to specify this because,
the default value of header is not none,
that is the case when there are no column names,
but infer, and therefore we need to specify
that there is no column names,
and to do this we put header=None, alright.
Then the next parameter is going to be engine,
and this is to make sure that
the dataset gets imported correctly.
And we will use the Python engine,
Python here, in quotes, to make it efficient.
And finally, we need to input a last argument,
which is the encoding.
And we need to input a different encoding than usual
because some of the movie titles contain special characters
that cannot be treated properly
with the classic encoding, UTF-8.
So, we're just adding this encoding argument
because of some of the special characters
in the movie titles.
So, in quotes we input Latin-1.
And quote, again, and that's the end of the parenthesis,
perfect, I think now we have everything,
let's make sure it's the case.
So I'm going to select this line,
and, execute.
Perfect, that works.
So, let's check it out in Variable Explorer,
and here are all our movies, here we go.
So that's the list of all the movies
in this Movieland database,
so feel free to have a look at this,
we have thousands of movies,
and for each of these movies you have this first column
which is the movie ID,
and that's the most important information
because this is the information we will use
to make a recommender system, you know,
we will not be using the titles,
it will be much more simple with the movies' IDs.
Okay, so this is the first dataset
and in fact, this is just to show you the movies.
We will not be using this dataset
to make the training set or the test set.
It is just to show you what's going on with all the movies.
So, okay, and now we're gonna do the same for our users.
Same, that's just for you to see where they are.
And so we're gonna create a new variable
that we're gonna call users, and =,
and now, good news, we're going to copy this line
because it's going to be almost the same,
so, copy, paste that here,
and actually we need to use the exact same arguments here
for the header, the engine and the encoding.
But then of course we need to change the path
because we're now importing our users.
That are contained in users.dat.
And therefore I'm replacing movies here by users.
And that should be all.
They use the same separator, the double colon
to separate the features, and therefore that's done.
We can select this line, and, execute.
Here we go, perfect, our users are well imported.
Here they are, users, and that all the information
is about the different users.
So the first column is the user ID,
the second column is the gender,
the third column is the age,
the fourth column is some codes
that correspond to the user's job,
and the last column is the zip code.
Okay, and now, let's import our ratings,
so there are 1 million ratings,
and, in fact, this is going to be exactly the same,
we're gonna create a new variable
that we're gonna call ratings,
and here we just paste the same line,
and that's the same, we're gonna use the same separator,
the same header, the same engine, the same encoding,
and therefore we only need to replace movies
by the name of the file that contains all the ratings
this is ratings.dat.
So here I'm just replacing movies by ratings.
Alright, and now let's select this line, and, execute.
Here we go it's taking a little time
because there is 1 million ratings,
and if you go to Variable Explorer,
this is our ratings.
So here that's really important to understand the structure,
because we are getting closer
to the training set and the test set we'll make,
to train our autoencoders.
So, the first column corresponds to the users.
So this one here that we see,
corresponds to the first user of the database.
So all these ones here correspond to the same user.
Then the second column corresponds to the movies.
And the numbers that we see here are the movies' IDs.
So this corresponds to a first movie,
this corresponds to a second movie,
a third movie, a fourth movie,
well, these are the movies' IDs,
that are contained in this movies DataFrame,
and so that's why we imported this DataFrame,
it's for you to see
which movie IDs corresponds to which movie,
just if you want to play or test
the recommender system in the end.
Let's open that again,
okay so that's the second column
corresponding to the movies,
and then, the third column corresponds,
of course, to the ratings.
So the ratings go from one to five,
one means that the user didn't like the movie,
and five means that user absolutely loved the movie.
So let's give two examples,
this second line here of index two, means that,
the user number one,
rated the movie number 914,
and gave it three stars.
And then, let's give another example,
if I'm scrolling down,
well, for example,
let's take this observation, 1589.
Well this corresponds to the user number 15,
that rated the movie number 357,
and gave it one star.
So this user absolutely hated this movie.
So now, for example, if you're curious
you can have fun, and see what this 357 movie ID
corresponds to.
The answer is in this movies dataset.
Alright so that's the third column,
and the fourth column we absolutely don't care,
these are just the timestamps,
that basically specifies when each user rated the movie.
So that's all, so we don't care
and we will remove this data afterwards
when creating the training set and the test set.
Alright, perfect, so, that's it for this first tutorial.
The dataset is now imported correctly,
and so we will move onto the next step,
which will be to create the training set and the test set.
So I'll see you in the next tutorial,
and until then, enjoy deep learning.